denovo/denovo_consequence.md, before:

## De-novo variants

Analysis of de-novo variants from 97 child-parents trios

### Impact of the variants

Genic variants fall into LOW, MODERATE, and HIGH categories

| impact   |     n |
|:---------|------:|
| HIGH     |     8 |
| LOW      |    75 |
| MODERATE |   117 |
| MODIFIER | 33867 |

Counts per sample

| impact   |        mean | min | max |
|:---------|------------:|----:|----:|
| HIGH     |   0.0824742 |   0 |   1 |
| LOW      |   0.7731959 |   0 |   3 |
| MODERATE |   1.2061856 |   0 |   6 |
| MODIFIER | 349.1443299 | 280 | 504 |

### Consequence counts

| conseq                                                             |     n |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|------:|
| 3_prime_UTR_variant                                                |   187 |
| 3_prime_UTR_variant,NMD_transcript_variant                         |     3 |
| 5_prime_UTR_variant                                                |    36 |
| downstream_gene_variant                                            |  2247 |
| intergenic_variant                                                 | 11940 |
| intron_variant                                                     | 11023 |
| intron_variant,NMD_transcript_variant                              |   166 |
| intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                       |  4669 |
| missense_variant                                                   |   116 |
| missense_variant,splice_region_variant                             |     1 |
| non_coding_transcript_exon_variant                                 |   272 |
| regulatory_region_variant                                          |   935 |
| splice_acceptor_variant                                            |     1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant              |     1 |
| splice_donor_variant                                               |     1 |
| splice_donor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                 |     1 |
| splice_region_variant,5_prime_UTR_variant                          |     1 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant                               |    13 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant |     5 |
| splice_region_variant,synonymous_variant                           |     1 |
| stop_gained                                                        |     4 |
| synonymous_variant                                                 |    55 |
| TF_binding_site_variant                                            |    75 |
| upstream_gene_variant                                              |  2314 |

Consequences of exonic and splicing variants

| conseq                                                             |   n |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|----:|
| missense_variant                                                   | 116 |
| missense_variant,splice_region_variant                             |   1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant                                            |   1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant              |   1 |
| splice_donor_variant                                               |   1 |
| splice_donor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                 |   1 |
| splice_region_variant,5_prime_UTR_variant                          |   1 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant                               |  13 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant |   5 |
| splice_region_variant,synonymous_variant                           |   1 |
| stop_gained                                                        |   4 |
| synonymous_variant                                                 |  55 |

### Rare coding de-novo per-sample

|     mean | min | max |
|---------:|----:|----:|
| 2.061856 |   0 |   8 |

Rare exonic denovo counts

| Var1 | Freq |
|:-----|-----:|
| 0    |   12 |
| 1    |   28 |
| 2    |   25 |
| 3    |   16 |
| 4    |   12 |
| 5    |    1 |
| 6    |    1 |
| 7    |    1 |
| 8    |    1 |

![](denovo_consequence_files/figure-markdown_github/coding.per.sample.hist-1.jpeg)

Commit message:

added denovo SNV and indel counts

denovo/denovo_consequence.md, after:

## De-novo variants

Analysis of de-novo variants from 97 child-parents trios.

Per-child counts of rare (MAF\<1%) filtered denovo SNVs:

|     mean | min | max |
|---------:|----:|----:|
| 351.2062 | 284 | 507 |

and indels:

|     mean | min |  max |
|---------:|----:|-----:|
| 1136.021 | 977 | 1411 |

### Impact of the variants

Genic variants fall into LOW, MODERATE, and HIGH categories

| impact   |     n |
|:---------|------:|
| HIGH     |     8 |
| LOW      |    75 |
| MODERATE |   117 |
| MODIFIER | 33867 |

Counts per sample

| impact   |        mean | min | max |
|:---------|------------:|----:|----:|
| HIGH     |   0.0824742 |   0 |   1 |
| LOW      |   0.7731959 |   0 |   3 |
| MODERATE |   1.2061856 |   0 |   6 |
| MODIFIER | 349.1443299 | 280 | 504 |

### Consequence counts

| conseq                                                             |     n |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|------:|
| 3_prime_UTR_variant                                                |   187 |
| 3_prime_UTR_variant,NMD_transcript_variant                         |     3 |
| 5_prime_UTR_variant                                                |    36 |
| downstream_gene_variant                                            |  2247 |
| intergenic_variant                                                 | 11940 |
| intron_variant                                                     | 11023 |
| intron_variant,NMD_transcript_variant                              |   166 |
| intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                       |  4669 |
| missense_variant                                                   |   116 |
| missense_variant,splice_region_variant                             |     1 |
| non_coding_transcript_exon_variant                                 |   272 |
| regulatory_region_variant                                          |   935 |
| splice_acceptor_variant                                            |     1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant              |     1 |
| splice_donor_variant                                               |     1 |
| splice_donor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                 |     1 |
| splice_region_variant,5_prime_UTR_variant                          |     1 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant                               |    13 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant |     5 |
| splice_region_variant,synonymous_variant                           |     1 |
| stop_gained                                                        |     4 |
| synonymous_variant                                                 |    55 |
| TF_binding_site_variant                                            |    75 |
| upstream_gene_variant                                              |  2314 |

Consequences of exonic and splicing variants

| conseq                                                             |   n |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|----:|
| missense_variant                                                   | 116 |
| missense_variant,splice_region_variant                             |   1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant                                            |   1 |
| splice_acceptor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant              |   1 |
| splice_donor_variant                                               |   1 |
| splice_donor_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant                 |   1 |
| splice_region_variant,5_prime_UTR_variant                          |   1 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant                               |  13 |
| splice_region_variant,intron_variant,non_coding_transcript_variant |   5 |
| splice_region_variant,synonymous_variant                           |   1 |
| stop_gained                                                        |   4 |
| synonymous_variant                                                 |  55 |

### Rare coding de-novo per-sample

|     mean | min | max |
|---------:|----:|----:|
| 2.061856 |   0 |   8 |

Rare exonic denovo counts

| Var1 | Freq |
|:-----|-----:|
| 0    |   12 |
| 1    |   28 |
| 2    |   25 |
| 3    |   16 |
| 4    |   12 |
| 5    |    1 |
| 6    |    1 |
| 7    |    1 |
| 8    |    1 |

![](denovo_consequence_files/figure-markdown_github/coding.per.sample.hist-1.jpeg)
